[Music]
we've got a question from a longtime
member of the audience that is in some
ways
180 degrees the opposite
of the kind of question we're used to
dealing with in our own private lives
and to some extent in our public lives
uh as as leaders of public opinion here
on youtube
um you know i'm joking but the stuff we
talk about both melissa and i it does
have a really deep really significant
impact on the lives of a small number of
people that wouldn't have it any other
way you know what i mean i would i would
rather have a profound impact on the
lives of a small number of people than
have a shallow impact on the lives of a
large number of people i think you're
going to see that in my writing if you
read my book if you read my essays you
don't mean that's what i'm going for if
you watch my youtube videos and as i now
make the transition to being a filmmaker
i may make films that reach a large
audience but still there's this question
of like them that have ears to hear let
them hear it's going to be a small
number of people in the audience who
really get
really get some kind of profound
inspiration or get some kind of have a
life-changing experience watching the
film you make now sorry we're going to
get to the question and you could guess
what the question is about from the
title of this video already
um but i got some fan mail just
yesterday
a guy wrote into me and said that he's
37 years old
and it had never even occurred to him
that he would quit playing video games
he watched my recent video uh talks
about china and the legal changes in
china that are discouraging people from
playing video games for more than three
hours and he said you know the way you
reasoned that through in that video it
was totally convincing to him it
presented it from a new and different
angle that he never thought about before
and he's now
he's now basically made up his mind that
he's going to change his life very
fundamentally and quit video games and
that it kind of means more coming from a
37 year old man he can probably look
back at the last 20 years of his life
and think about the impact that playing
video games has had on him and now he's
looking forward to the next 20 years of
his life of becoming a middle-aged man
and an old man and he's he's making a
serious decision that he's really he's
really almost by so you know
i realized that for some of you these
kinds of discussions they may seem
flippant and shallow and if that's all
you can get out of them that's fine too
but you know
whether it's videos i've made talking
about
you know smoking marijuana
talking about antidepressant drug use
criticizing other youtubers people like
anissie and jacqueline glenn like kind
of mainstream seemingly shallow i can
guarantee every single one of those
videos reach just one or two people for
whom it changed their life profoundly
whether there were whether it reached a
total audience of one thousand two
thousand viewers in some cases my videos
have reached ten thousand people you
know there are just a few people in the
audience for whom that's really
the right message being delivered at the
right time
in the right terms that they can really
relate to and they they change their
lives accordingly so yeah one of my old
catchphrases around here was you know
it's shallow and it's deep
at the same damn time
and with talking about this stuff you
know
title is video we're talking about
love without sex
and also sex without love
we're talking about decisions people
make that really do have a deep profound
influence on their life even if
regarded in the short term regarding a
very narrow sense even if they may seem
uh like the shallowest thing in the
world it changes your life forever the
way you think about these issues and
what you feel about these issues okay so
i'm now going to read the question from
the audience okay uh question from a
member of the audience and okay even the
first few words here you know will
resonate with the intro i've just
offered so this is a woman who writes in
we're going to make this completely
anonymous
not going to use anyone's real name
we're also not going to use their real
jobs or geographic location
she writes it and says quote hi heisel
i've been watching your videos for over
six years and they have had a major
influence in my life
in some sense i have seen you as a
paternal figure as in some sense i have
never had a father in my own life
for the past 12 months i've been in a
relationship with a man
who has all the admirable qualities i
could ever dream of
and she here mentions some details about
his education his profession his career
it's not actually telling me directly
what those admirable qualities are but
nevertheless
she then goes on to say he wants to
marry and have children with me
i enjoy his company greatly but have
zero physical attraction to him in some
ways you could say that i am repulsed by
him physically
new sentence
i don't know what is the right thing to
do
any advice would be much appreciated
now look i'm happy for melissa to say as
much or as little as she wants to
but like at this juncture figuratively
handing the mic over to you i you and i
have laughed about this so many times i
think a lot of people presume
that the position you're in like they
presume that you're someone who admires
me intellectually but that this is a
kind of dry intellectual romance with an
older man whom you feel no attraction to
or very little attraction to and it's
it's that's really the opposite of the
truth you know so i just say like no a
lot of people would not be bold enough a
lot of people in your own life they
wouldn't be bold enough to say that to
you like to my knowledge trigger but
your parents have never laid that on you
and your parents do interrogate her
about this relationship no and fine sure
but like i i do think that you like one
of the misperception about about you is
that you're a woman who chose to be with
a man you found intellectually admirable
but who you don't feel attracted to and
no this was a tremendously passionate
romance where i swept you off your feet
the first day we met and you know right
yeah i just said that that's also part
of the public perception versus reality
in like setting up your your commentary
some autobiographical details so you
know we we got to know each other uh and
we had some conversations and
because i had read an essay that you
wrote yes
that influenced you into thinking yes
like we should meet because i had
admiration and respect for his writing
that
gave him some sense that i had respect
for who he was as an intellectual when
that's right true but i first saw him
speaking you know i first saw him on
youtube and uh you know i had an
attraction to him just
yeah naturally it wasn't it wasn't based
on your writing explicitly
and sexually
yeah naturally it's a little too big
we're going yeah yeah yeah yeah
definitely the sexual attraction was
there and still is there i'm not
replaced by you
it's not like i'm overcoming repulsion
right
by being in a relationship with you it's
that
very much inspired by that and yeah i
remember
somebody at the time when i was planning
on meeting you was saying that i was
just thinking with my vagina
yeah you know um i had a lot of
criticism from people for various
aspects okay whether it was just that
seriously but the people the people who
said that you at that time they were at
least acknowledging that this was for
you like primarily or overwhelmingly
sexual attraction that it wasn't the
fact that you you know had read my books
or
read my articles and like related to me
in a dry intellectual sense as a oh yeah
i know for me it was like
okay i'm i'm actually like for the first
time in my life like going after
somebody yes because i'm sexually
attracted to them because i right
because i want to you know be with them
um in this way yeah right so yeah it was
like very much a sexual awakening for me
so yeah i mean i i
that that
people obviously they find it
uncomfortable to talk to me about it
probably uh but you know
just your work that is the reality this
could be a three-hour livestream guys
hit the thumbs up so i have so much to
say about this like inside out and
backwards and upside down like from many
different
angles really doesn't relate to this
this question yes yes you know it's not
that i was i had sex with my former
boyfriend you know like i i
was sexually active and i i really
enjoyed you know like i wanted to have
sex but it was just like i did any
different in a different way because
like i hadn't pursued that relationship
that was somebody who had really pursued
me right and this was this was a man
like a different situation where i was i
felt like for the first time i was like
okay no i'm going after somebody you
know um that i really want to be with
well i think too i mean maybe this is
very hard for you to think through but
like i don't know if you could imagine
what it would have been like if you only
admired me intellectually and didn't
feel any attraction toward me now like
like look but i mean to give a real
world example
i don't believe you're attracted to gary
yourofsky i don't believe you're
attracted to gary francione all the top
gary's like we could mention
yeah we could mention other like
quote-unquote intellectual leaders in
the vegan movement that you you know i
mean you could have met up with at least
they might not have been interested in
you you know what i mean but like uh i i
you know one of the questions is like so
i think you could tell me wrong if you
had only been interested in me
intellectually if there was only lecture
admiration then i think you would have
just tried to be friends with me yeah no
like isn't that isn't that fair to say
you would not you would not have tried
to pursue a sexual or or even deeply
personal relationship if it was just so
that's how it started yeah when i first
sent you a message i actually had like a
longer message in mind where i was like
you know what i like i feel like such an
affinity to you like i want to be
friends like i want to do you know it
felt kind of weird though given that i
was 24 and he was in his 30s you know i
could tell from the from the first email
she ever sent to me the like sexual
interest was bubbling through the
keyboard you know what i mean just
mention but that's the reality was from
the very first message she sent to me i
thought this one was translated yeah
yeah i know i didn't know how serious
she was going to be about it but you
could absolutely get the vibe coming
through go on yeah okay yeah yeah that's
yeah interesting
and get your perspective on that because
yeah i know you you have told me that
but um
still at the time i was just like you
know oh i mean it's in a similar way
like that you've that it's just been
inspiring to to hear you speak on so
many issues and yeah
well look with such you know uh
i look i'm totally i'm totally happy to
just talk about our own autobiography
for two hours but you know the the
question from the audience though the
parallel i'm trying to strike is this
for this woman who's in this situation
she can ask herself wouldn't my life be
so much better today wouldn't everything
be better today if i had just become
friends with this guy now
i'm saying
so you
dear viewer person who wrote this email
you may have never thought about it this
way you may have never stopped and
reflected
what if this guy was just my friend and
if you've been together for one year
you've probably gotten used to him doing
your dishes and going grocery shopping
together like you've probably become
accustomed to many many things and
sharing your life that you would never
do with a normal friend it's not that
it's forbidden but if someone's just
your friend you don't cooperate that
that closely
but if you respect someone
intellectually or ethically
you know
we're left to fill in the details here
and you respect their career and
education
but you find them repulsive or
completely unattractive
of course you should just be friends and
of course for the past one year
with this guy you could have just been
friends and then you could be sleeping
with someone else and he could be
sleeping with someone else who you
actually have mutual chemistry with you
actually find attractive so i just yeah
take it yeah no i i think there's a lot
to that that
that needs to be said you know if you
aren't if you are actually repulsed by
somebody
that's a huge factor and and you know
like how much of that can change but um
well okay but that's so i'm gonna jump
in there that's where i feel i'm very
different from other people
and
so you tell me you guys can write into
me from the audience
you know if i really feel intellectual
admiration for someone
i think in most cases i would then start
to find them attractive now i'm i'm
completely heterosexual so this could
never happen with a man
and you know obviously there's some
limit where a woman could be you know so
hideously ugly that that's impossible
but with a woman who's uh mediocre
looking or a little bit ugly i've talked
about this in other videos in the past
um
you know it's very easy for me to
imagine and i've kind of felt this
happen when you're let's say you're in a
workplace relationship with someone
someone who isn't who isn't your type
who isn't attractive to you at first
glance but you work with them and you
see that they're intelligent you see
that they're honest you see they're hard
working you see that they're not crazy
i'm especially interested in women who
are not crazy
you know i mean you start to see the
redeeming qualities and then for me
you perceive them differently you feel
differently about them and then you
start to feel sexualized that's that's
my experience you know empirically of
life is that i mean this is not mind
over matter
it's that your attraction to someone
reflects your totalizing judgment about
them your judgment about them in their
totality mind body and soul everything
known and i know and i would say the
opposite i remember when i first got
together you were uncomfortable with me
talking about this but there have been
women who kind of started flirting with
me or took it to one
extent or another who were gorgeous and
where i was so attracted to them
um but then as i found out more about
who they were intellectually or
ethically
i was i was completely turned off and i
and i turned them down
uh so i've had that it so it's obviously
it's the same mechanism it's like well
okay i know who you really are and that
could be that could create my attraction
for someone who's
unattractive at first glance
unattractive on the surface but then
also it can completely undermine my
sense of attraction you can demonstrate
me that i'm not attracted to someone
whom i otherwise would be attracted to
you
yeah i'm just thinking about where to go
with this because
i got 10 different directions
it's shallow and it's deep at the same
damn time
yeah
well i don't know i mean part of me is
just inclined to talk autobiographically
because
like from my experience uh i've talked
to you about this but
i have as i've gotten older
gotten used to
accepting when i'm just repulsed by
somebody when i'm not attracted to
somebody and being frank about that
being honest about that um
whereas in the past like i really
struggled with this where i don't want
to to make the guy feel bad like i don't
want to reject somebody
this is something that i have like
just felt guilty about um
and actually like i know it's it's
uh so yeah i mean it it might be painful
to reflect on this but like how i see
what you mean now right right right
right so so you mean in terms of
the crucial step i alluded to before of
we should just be friends having the
strength to say to someone
i like you intellectually or maybe
ethically or maybe politically there's
something we have no but no you're not
attracting them no right yes so but this
was my how my first like relationship
started where i was she's had two i'm
the second one go on yeah yeah so
uh
he he's he was a very tall very like
large imposing person but he was she has
a type
yeah
yeah in some ways yeah yeah um when i
met him he was he was uh like a normal
weight you know like he was
he later became very fat yeah but he was
a good looking guy you know like i i had
reasons to think he was cute and think
he was like funny you know uh and nice
like he they were
charming you know like there were things
about him that were
positive like that i liked about him a
lot but i like looking back on it i know
based on the attraction that i felt to
other people like it wasn't there
initially that i was like i wanted i
wanted this guy you know like so uh but
for a long time i grew to love him you
know like i really love this person uh
over time like when you get to know
somebody so it is i really like the
title of this video because it's
reflecting on like this love and
appreciation for somebody versus sex and
sexual attraction right and like but
let's be clear in our culture in this
period of time
it's very difficult for people to have
non-sexual relationships or non-sexual
friendships
and like i it just i'm sorry but it is
and like so you've now been with me for
four and a half years
of the friends i have who actually talk
to me who actually make time to talk to
me
during those four and a half years
a huge percentage of them were women who
either had tried to have sex with me in
the past and gave up like they were like
failed suitors or something women who
wanted to be with me and gave up and
then we ended up as just friends or they
were women who
to one extent or another were concealing
the fact that they were still actively
trying to have sex with me and some of
those friendships ended that way where
the woman like freaks out and like they
reveal i mean i feel it would be an
exaggeration to say that these women
reveal that they're in love with me but
they they reveal that they're they're
trying to sleep and they're trying and
failing to have a sexual relationship
with me and it's like oh well when i
said we were just friends i meant it you
know i mean like no like to me these
women they were just my friend you know
so like you know but this is not a
humble break it's not the point is
like you know i made videos talking with
us recently i wish i had colleagues
still today from my years being a
scholar of buddhism i wish i had
colleagues for my years being involved
in humanitarian work i would say i wish
i have colleagues still from my
involvement in anthropology
uh first nations politics first nation
you know first nations languages even
just language teaching you can meet
really interesting people working in
teaching english as a second language
teaching chinese learning chinese these
are all interesting walks of life i've
been in
and no like most of the people who talk
to me like they're either women who
wanted in the past to sleep with me and
they still have that kind of
tension and motivation or
like covertly or overtly they still are
and sorry let's be let's be real so at
different times my life has come up the
men who talked to me like in my life as
a whole
a significant number of those men were
homosexual or bisexual
and they like that was a suppressed
element of their interest in me and
believe me i had absolutely no interest
in them that way like there was no i'm
completely heterosexual but where that's
that's partly more than that so this is
this is a digression but it's not really
because the point is you know well
melissa was talking about the kind of
strength of of character you need um to
say to a dude
like look
we should just be friends like you know
whatever no matter how much you like him
or admire him however much intellectual
compatibility there is that there isn't
this kind of attraction there isn't this
basis for a romance or a marriage or
raising kids together
that that takes a kind of strength at
that moment and i mean i think it's fair
to say
if you wait
if you wait until after you've had sex
with them it's too late you can never
yeah
very few men would be able to transition
from a sexual relationship to being just
friends
and i have
i knew
okay when i've known women who did that
especially like our culture i mean if
you talk about some totally foreign
culture
you know i don't know but like i've
always been like like really is that
really what's going on or are you still
meeting up with this guy and sleeping
with him once in a while like what you
know like to make the transition to
being just intellectual colleagues and
friends
um
after the fact
if not if not impossible it's almost
impossible once this line has been
crossed it's very difficult to un okay
to get right to retreat yeah and to me
no and to me the exceptions so to me the
exceptions prove the world my mother had
a friend
and he had been her boyfriend like back
when my mom was like 20 or 21 or
something
and then like they became friends again
when she was like 65 no at least the
dude like like when they were all like
decades had passed and they'd like like
okay like there are some exceptions
where like in your 60s or something
somebody you used to be a sexual
connection comes back into your life as
just a friend like i admit like you know
legitimate i think also in business that
can happen but whoa so so if the woman
doesn't have the strength of character
to to friend zone the guy you know
that's that's the german okay you know
early you know at the right juncture
then probably she is facing uh a fork in
the road where it's like either this
person is a sexual
connection or sexual partner forever or
they're cut out of your life and you
never hear from them again and that's i
think that's this woman's situation the
you know dear viewer uh the person who's
writing in uh asking for this i think
you know
there is probably have so she says she's
lived with him for 12 months
right and he's wanting to get married
and have kids i don't think you can go
from that to let's just be friends
right or if you do it's decades later
like maybe just one decade maybe he goes
and gets married to someone else and has
kids with them you you get married to
someone else and then you can be maybe
still incredible in our culture you're
incredible okay you got you got a whole
you say anything you don't have to
follow up with us because there are a
lot of different directions yeah say
whatever you want to say but you know
but no i think that
that probably is the case like even if
you
once yeah
uh okay i'll read it
i'm gonna read some stuff from the
audience you guys by the way with 32
people in the audience if we have 32
thumbs up that'll help more people
discover it and join it well it's what's
going on
uh
so brendon williams says this is one of
my favorite topics isil helped me to
quit drinking be hyper critical at the
time i spent playing video games and has
had a profound lasting influence on his
life so thanks for thanks for writing in
brendan um you know i said before that
there's this small small number of
viewers like if two thousand people
watch one of my videos there might be
just one or two people for whom this is
the turning point but there are more
people for whom watching my videos is
deepening and reinforcing their
reflections on these things there are
people who already had quit drinking
alcohol before they watch my videos
but then watching the videos and really
kind of philosophizing about it they
realize how significant it is and what
the commitment means you know so there
is this reinforcing effect for people
quitting video games quitting alcohol
all these all these things reflecting on
it in this way and realizing how much it
means and how much in a sense it's worth
it's worth the price it's worth the cost
because there is a cost there's a real
sacrifice definitely i mean you know to
use this example if you quit drinking
alcohol that may cut off your access to
in our culture it cuts off your access
to a lot of sexual partners just the
scenarios in which you meet people and
so on and so forth you know um
okay so nacho nacho's a female viewer
says quote repulsion in my opinion
usually only occurs if it's someone
who's either morally or ethically
repugnant or if they have poor hygiene
i really disagree i really really really
disagree
um
this gets down to the question of what
is nature
and what is artifice in a very
disturbing way i just read a bunch of
different perspectives on the marriage
of lee harvey oswald you know
so lee harvey oswald
he is famous for his involvement in the
assassination of jfk as he put it he was
a patsy but he is remembered in history
because he was somehow involved or
implicated in the shooting of the
president united states uh jfk
um
but every single detail of his marriage
his dysfunctional marriage was recorded
for history for this reason uh including
we saw the transcripts of
russian spies who had recorded his
conversations like you know they had
audio recordings and and
you got to read them fighting yeah
fighting about oh did you mop the floor
today no he didn't like really this kind
of detail about about this relationship
now one of the things that his his wife
or his widow says because she's
interviewed after after lee harvey
oswald is dead she said you know um
he wasn't a bad looking guy
but she always hated his scent
she couldn't stand the smell of him you
know she felt repulsed by him um she
hated the fact that he had narrow
shoulders uh she couldn't stand the
sight of his body when he was naked
and you know this thing about the smell
that he had this distinctive or bad
smell about him and so on and uh you
know there were other things she
mentioned some of the things were more
intellectual or what have you that she
really just never felt it was a good
match they didn't she didn't feel that
they were compatible now a lot of people
will leap to claim that that's nature
that that's biology
right but
subjectively in your real life you can
never know
right you can never know am i taking
something that's actually like an
intellectual um
analysis or perception of my part like
is this something i'm
are there are there intellectual
not even just intellectual qualities
that person has that i'm perceiving and
analyzing and then i'm i'm kind of
emotionally you know experiencing this
through their scent
you know but
the way
okay the way i think about somebody
is the way i feel about somebody right
and it's even the way i perceive them
and the way i smell them and you can
never really extricate these things you
know now i'll give you an example not
all women feel this way
but we talk about this in relation to
some youtubers there are some men on
youtube who admit openly that they pay
to sleep with prostitutes you know now
uh ladies we got some ladies in the
audience here
i don't know how would you feel if
you're in love with a man you're
pursuing a man
and then you find out that he's been
sleeping with prostitutes not every week
but he occasionally sleeps with
prostitutes and that during your
courtship with him even he has sometimes
met up with and had sex with a
prostitute like during let's say during
the first two weeks you were you were
dating him or getting to know him that
he was me i can see from the expression
to your face right oh maybe you never
thought about this before now i i can
totally imagine from a woman's
perspective like okay i used to feel
attracted to you i used to find you
attractive and intelligent and even kind
of morally good and now i feel repulsed
because i know something about who you
are ethically and i know something who
you are intellectually i know something
about you that makes you to me seem
untrustworthy now guys so you you may
notice i there are all kinds of things i
would love to abolish on planet earth
i'd love to abolish alcohol and gambling
and eating meat you know i'm vegan i
think everyone should be vegan i have
never talked about abolishing
prostitution i do think it's inevitable
that we have to have some prostitution
on planet earth um like that's that's a
anyway it's it to me it does not belong
in the category of things to be
eradicated uh from the human experience
however you know like i can imagine the
way you perceive someone and even what
they smell like to you completely
changing when you find out about this
side of their character the side of
their behavior and that it's you know
and it relates to how he treats you as a
woman
you know what i mean like so i to me
there's a lot there's a lot there you
know now you could probably talk to some
women who would say they're completely
comfortable with their husband uh
sleeping with prostitutes and that that
he slept with prostitutes before he got
to know her or that he still does now
that he spices up his sex other way
maybe maybe someone would feel that way
you know but again i'm i'm saying this
as a man and i understand everything
that everything that goes into it you
know
um i see oh that could totally change
the way you the way you feel about
somebody
and you know anyway and the the
competitive instincts that are there and
the evaluative instincts so look this is
a response to what nacho said will you
say you know revulsion only occurs if
it's someone who's either morally or
ethically repugnant or if they have poor
hygiene
i i don't think so and again nacho i
don't know how many partners you've had
i don't know what what experience you've
got
there's
yeah so frida freda's comment is
following up so might as well right now
frida says quote i don't know if there's
something biological about having
repulsion for someone sometimes you
don't like how someone smells and they
could be nice but it's just difficult to
understand the smell
i think also i look see i don't know to
what extent this is my rational mind
like
creating the illusion of something
that's instinctual or biologically real
but you know i made a video about a year
ago talking about inbreeding sorry maybe
it's only been six months feels like a
year ago uh talking about uh the genetic
problems that arise from you know
getting married to your own cousin this
kind of thing
i always felt that i was repulsed by
women who look like they could be
related to me and for me growing up that
was mostly italian women who genetically
probably have nothing in common with me
but there were italian women around who
looked like they could be my sister or
looked like they could be my cousin you
know like the
just things about their appearance
and i always felt
you know i felt like this and and there
were other guys for whom italian women
were the the height of of beauty and
whatever but again you know like i can
try to reify that i can try to
rationalize that as if that's an
instinctual and genetic
reality it's a response but dude you
know
i would i you will never be able to know
yourself that way you'll never be able
to pin that down
and you know to what extent is it
instead
you know that i felt
repulsion to these italian women because
for example they weren't intellectual
enough for me you know what i mean like
they
no offense in my neighborhood
i did grow up around an italian
community they mostly watched football
and
soccer i mean you know and ice hockey it
was not
was not the most erudite you know
subculture you know um to what extent is
that just a rationalization of other
things that are going on when you when
you evaluate someone you know
anyway sorry babe uh you wanna again you
do not have to follow up on what i'm
saying you do not have to follow up on
what the the people in the audience are
saying you can take it in any direction
you want to take it or respond to the
original question
i see yeah
i think you covered that pretty well i
mean i i could i could go on to talk
about
yeah scent and repulsion that way like i
do think there's something to that
you you can tell me though i mean
you know do you feel you have a type and
that i'm your type because
uh yeah
i think that's yeah i'd just say like uh
when when i mentioned
you know features of my ex you said like
oh yeah there's some things in common
right uh some things in common right um
but i guess
this kind of ties into what i was saying
earlier too where uh when i was younger
like i had a really difficult time
rejecting people and um especially like
rejecting somebody who
was expressing like romantic interest in
me like this was even going back to like
middle school like when i was 13 like a
guy asked me to be his girlfriend and
like i felt bad saying no so i said yes
and then like later on that day or like
the next day i was like you know what no
i'm not actually interested in being
your girlfriend you know like
like and i had never you know i was i
was very i was just i was just a kid you
know i was like 12 or something but yeah
even at that that starting point like i
remember like
afterwards thinking like what's the
matter with you like why can't you just
say what you actually feel um why can't
you just like reject somebody um whether
it's
but that's some middle-aged [ __ ] seeing
what you actually feel that's like
that's what's so great about being
middle-aged bro like when you're
middle-aged you go through life saying
what you feel okay when you're 15 years
old saying what you feel is a [ __ ]
mountain to climb no like for real bro
no before we i love i love being
middle-aged i'm [ __ ] you know my life is
wonderful as a middle-aged person but oh
yeah yeah yeah
okay no i mean even even for me i know
people like perceive me as super
self-confident because i am but like
what do you think you think for me at 15
it was really easy for me to articulate
like even to a friend in private or to
my parents or something how i feel about
a girl or what i think no man i mean you
know you struggle and struggle and
struggle and then at some point in the
struggle it becomes easy but no i mean
even even being honest in your own
thoughts about these things you know is
you know yeah so i mean you asked the
question
about do you think i'm your type like i
think that there's a lot of what you've
talked about recently about sexual
attraction about attraction to somebody
has to do with feeling like you trust
the person that yeah you know
like a tattoo yes somebody that you feel
comfortable like if you're hurt they'll
be there for you and like they'll care
about you yes like that really matters
fundamentally like i think of you as
somebody who's very caring yes you know
you care about me and
um i can tell you care about you care
about people like people that you know
right so that's that's really attractive
so like i know that's not a type so i
mean like no no no no no no but it is
it's a typology i mean it is it is a
type of type right well for me i mean
one of the biggest changes in my life so
again this has to do with perceiving
things as biologically real so you know
melissa has met my ex-wife i'm i'm
divorced you guys don't know i had a
wife before melissa and and melissa is
my presumptive next wife in case yes
we'll see how it goes i think she likes
me but we've been together for four and
a half years we might as well be married
but we're not we're not legally married
um but you know it's just been it's been
going on for so long so but there was a
stage many years ago when melissa
actually met my ex-wife face to face and
melissa didn't pick up on it at the time
because my ex-wife didn't say it in a
gauche way but my ex-wife seeing melissa
in person melissa did look gorgeous on
that particular day like just her her
style of dress you know i mean it was it
was uh it was a good face day it was a
good hair day it was a good body day and
you know she was she was in a nice
outfit but i remember my ex-wife like
said to me you know politely but she was
like defying
like this girl isn't your type at all
you know what i mean like you know so
again she didn't say it it really wasn't
improper melissa didn't feel insulted or
whatever but mom yeah you know i really
remember it yeah no no we talked about
after we talked about after yeah i know
i pointed out she was like you know when
she said this that was that was what's
going on and again i'm not faulting my
ex-wife for saying that that was just
her being sincere but it was like what
like you chose you chose this girl you
know because it just was she she had a
sense of what my type was and what it
was after she was like oh like this girl
isn't your type now of course you can
now list off a bunch of ways in which
like intellectually morally and like
there are and even culturally by the way
so culturally is another interesting
category in which melissa is exactly my
type but like what i've been able to
experience now now i'm 42 years old
is that what you think is your type
actually changes
and it actually changes in response to
your own positive experience and and i'm
gonna be blunt it changes in response to
your sexual experience not movies
not
watching uh rap music videos no it's
changing response to the actual sex you
have had so like what i find now and
this has been true this has been true
since like the first couple months we
were together is that now in real life
the women i am most attracted to
literally are women that remind me of
melissa right which like no like in us
like in a sense this is like
biologically counterintuitive like you
know you might think oh well don't you
want to compensate by being with a fat
woman or something like something that's
just really different like oh well if
you're going to cheat on your girlfriend
why wouldn't you cheat with something
that's you know just a totally different
type of beautiful woman or something
something that's like the opposite
extreme but no i'm really aware of that
and it feels like biological reality it
feels like oh yeah this has always been
my type this is always what i'm what i'm
after
uh but it's i mean again you can't
extricate
what's instinctual from what's
intellectual and from what's empirical
like now empirical i just mean that
you've actually experienced this so like
you know i'm just being real with you
like before i was with melissa
how many people had i ever met who has
melissa's hair color like she has this
kind of rare hair color it's not blonde
and it's not brown it's kind of a
halfway in between it's an unusual hair
color and whether or not you can pick it
up on the on the camera you know i mean
i would have never said that like oh
yeah this is my hair color but like now
that i've been with melissa like for
real i i respond to and i'm like
interested in like with like you know i
feel myself like perk up like on this
instinctual level when there's a woman
who has this this kind of hair color no
i've said this you also even like the
shape of your nose because there are
other women who have this kind of shape
and it's like oh so like dude when when
you get to my age and you've been
through what i've been through and and
you know let's be real i can remember
being in thailand and laos
and feeling like none of these women are
attractive to me which was which is true
it was incredibly rare for me to see a
woman who was even
a little bit attractive to me there like
i've never been into asian women and
thinking like well
i've got to like try to train myself
to find these people attractive you know
what i mean like i've got to kind of
change my mental because this is it like
now i'm living out here permanently like
this is like you know i don't you know
i'm not able to i'm not able to date
black women you know what i mean i think
growing up where i grew up i did you
know i i did like you know black women i
did like women who were also like latina
or something or all kinds of growing up
where i grew up she's seen my
neighborhood in toronto we had you know
we had we had a lot of uh immigrants
from
brazilians and people from the caribbean
and stuff one of the first girls i i got
involved with was um uh from trinidad
you know so she was of mixed ancestry
from the caribbean and stuff so you know
like
you know you come out of that background
and you know i know there are all these
white guys who are in thailand
especially because they idolize you know
the way thai women look at i don't at
all
so like my point being when you go
through that it feels biologically real
it feels instinctual but instead a lot
of it is empirical and is intellectual
it's more intellectual than you
than you think it is
so i just say we've been saying this
almost as like a critique of the
question
but like no no which is which is
meaningful like it is in part like a
response to the question
but like
i think the point is
if you really know this dude and in a
perfect world you would have gotten to
know him just as friends not sleeping
with him not you know living the same
part with him
but like if you've gotten to know this
dude and you do have intellectual
admiration for him and you have some
kind of ethical appreciation for me phil
is a good person as well as a smart
person right
and you still feel repulsed you're still
not attracted like you haven't kind of
you haven't started to perceive him as
attractive because of those redeeming
qualities then then like it seems to me
you're 100
certain this could never work you know
what i mean because like if you just met
someone if you only known somebody for
one week two weeks something like this
and it's like well
i'm not really attracted to them but i
totally understand you could say well
let let's give it a chance let's see
what goes maybe as i
learn to appreciate them i'll start to
feel attracted because those qualities
okay go jump on the wall yeah no no i i
want to jump on that what you're saying
like maybe over time like i'll start to
feel like attraction to this right
so
i think there is a kind of narrative in
our culture that if you work really hard
that you'll win somebody's heart oh yeah
the hard work narrative yeah right like
if you are very
that's the in-cell narrative oh boy
that's the in-cell trap go on yeah okay
this is the narrative
if you're kind enough if you're sweet
enough like you know right but look okay
so in terms of like physical
characteristics right the first person i
like was
like
just heart
heartbroken over in high school like he
was he was tall but he was blonde and
blue eyed like you know like this it's
not like i have a type for like dark
hair you know right i might think that
because like i don't know i'm super
attracted to isil so i have a thing for
guys that have dark curly hair like i
don't know well that's i don't think
that's really it um it had to do with
his characteristics it had to do with uh
just how he presented and and that kind
of thing of course like
totally different person now and i'm
totally different person now but um you
know like i'm just thinking of that idea
where um
like he didn't even have to do anything
for me specifically it was just that i
was attracted to him
for whatever you know combination of
reasons that i wasn't able to really
analyze at that time and i was i was
young but uh you know being a teenager
you don't you don't really
you don't have the self-reflection and
it's very rarely actually talk to
somebody about about this stuff like you
know people might say like oh
you have a crush on this guy like why
what do you like about him or something
but it's it's not the same thing as is
like having this kind of philosophical
attitude to like
actually discussing physical attraction
between people right and and being
honest with yourself about who you find
physically attracted because and there's
a lot wrapped up going into it too like
what so like i feel a lot of judgment on
me if i were to say
that
like there's a lot of of this in the in
cell culture like oh women are only
interested in men who are wealthy like
what if i said like yes i have a thing
for wealthy men like right so there
would be a lot of hate directed towards
me if that were the case like if that if
that was my
type you know so being honest about that
right or if my you know any any number
of things that they say like oh well
women don't date anyone under six feet
like that's that's
tinder like if you if you are under six
feet tall then this is
men feel like they're at a disadvantage
biologically but i don't think that's
true because you know i have
i have been attracted to people who are
shorter yeah and you know like but but
look you know i do think we have to be
kind of warm-hearted and good-natured
and good you know have generosity of
spirit in making judgments about other
people however
i do legitimately think you can judge
someone by their sex life by the choice
they make in life and i think a great
example this is napoleon bonaparte like
if you want to draw conclusions about
the ethical and political character of
napoleon
his sex life is a great window into who
he really was as a man and and you know
it also explains things about him
politically and religiously you know so
on and so forth so you know i would be a
complete hypocrite if i sat here and
said like oh you can't judge someone
because this is what they're into
sexually or this with it no it's a
really meaningful really worthwhile way
to judge someone and to understand
someone is to look at the choices they
make in in their sex life now again you
do have to be
you know
have generosity of spirit you have to be
warm and understanding and and think
about them charitably and think
sympathetically and think about if you
were in there in their
position you have to kind of you have to
give them the benefit of the doubt and
think through you know charitable
interpretations not just the most
harshly condemning interpretation of why
they've why they've done what they've
done but you know the title of this
video has two parts
talking about love without sex we're
also talking about you know
sex without love
and you know
we both do judge people harshly for that
and we we talk about that a lot because
it comes up in life like you know you're
after this person just for the sex just
for their body just because they're hot
just because they're attractive we're
dealing with the opposite in this video
primarily but again you'd be a hypocrite
if you're like a critique of if you if
you criticize only that side of the coin
and you don't deal with the other side
of the point the other side of the coin
is yeah yes yes we have talked about
that and definitely i i really
appreciate having having gone through
this with you because the very like
immature view of sex and relationships
too like i don't think that
i don't have respect
okay how can i say this better so if you
are just interested in somebody because
of their physical
attractiveness you know that that
shouldn't be the only basis that that
can't really sustain a relationship and
that
you know if you want to live the rest of
your life with this person if you want
this person to be a part of your
development as in your career and your
educational background and everything
like that um
it's not just going to be about their
physical attractiveness right and um
you may feel very
very uh strongly attached to somebody in
an interested in them in this way but if
you don't like connect on these other
levels then yeah it's it is and
ultimately i mean there's a pragmatic
critique of that behavior like you can
look at the life of lee harvey oswald
and say well you got with this woman
just because she was attractive right
and you were totally incompatible in
every other way including just cigarette
smoking he was trying to get her to quit
smoking she never she was a chainsmoker
you know okay so like there were really
obviously you only cared about the fact
that she was a hot blonde and you oh you
overlooked all of these terrible you
know warning signs that you were not
going to be able to work as a marriage
at all uh there were numerous you know
with that with that thing okay so
there's a pragmatic critique of that but
i think there's also a more profound
personal critique which is this tells me
something about you if you are someone
who only cares about how hot somebody
else is how physically attracted they're
whether objectively or subjectively
whether it's that they're hot
you know in a sense that's socially
recognized like on instagram a lot of
people think they're attractive or it's
just subjective like you you may
personally be attracted to very fat
people who are not popular on instagram
it's not a socially endorsed form of
beauty it's not the social beauty method
beauty standard but for you personally
and then that's all you care about you
know that this again we're going to
we're willing to criticize napoleon for
a sex life we have to be willing to
criticize ourselves you want to jump in
so you simply go outside yeah well
okay the thing that we have talked about
before that i'm trying to
express is that um you know what do you
view do you view people just as
prostitutes basically is this how you
use romance and love somebody that you
can
use for your own sexual gratification um
used in a kind of
selfish way that like this you know i
have this desire desire to
right
have sex with somebody and it could be
anybody that i find beautiful rather
than like is there something more to
that person that you admire and so yeah
this is
you know i don't
i don't want to seem stuck up for this
but yeah like if there isn't something
deeper than just sexual attraction then
i don't view it as positively and and
i've had to get over that because you
know in contrast to what you were saying
like where some people think that we
just haven't uh
yeah an intellectual relationship and
i'm not sexually attracted to them
obviously that was a huge part of why i
you know our romance is that i was you
know very much interested in you
sexually and uh you know i'm not going
to be ashamed of that i'm not going to
pretend like that didn't play a role
because it did especially at the
beginning you know well right so i just
want to say i had a friend some of you
will remember this youtuber there was a
friend of mine who was called american
unicorn
and she was a member of the mormon
religion she's not anymore she lost her
faith she quit but she was like super
serious about the mormon religion right
up until she cracked and quit
but i remember even her talking about
this about sexuality in marriage and she
said she talked about it with her own
father and her father said to her look
if you don't want to have sex with
someone then they should be your
roommate not your husband like no like
you know even within that repressive
religious context it was like no like
you know marriage is about sex love is
about sex wow sexual attraction yeah
yeah sexually
oh yeah yeah and she she had considered
marrying a guy
uh who was a lawyer he was so he was
quite successful and he was apparently i
mean according to her account he was
intelligent and he had other redeeming
qualities but she did not feel
attraction towards him you know it
didn't and no she didn't have sex she
was part she was part of a religion
where there was no sex before marriage
anyway i don't know if she even kissed
someone before she remembered she had
very very little to zero experience but
she had to consider that seriously as a
suitor as a possible match
and uh you know she that's the thing why
she was having this conversation with
her dad she really decided no she should
wait for someone who was really
sexually compatible with her now the
actual marriage that ensued was a
complete disaster which you know there's
a lot of material about that in the
internet actually so i'm i'm not outing
her when i say that actually there was a
lot of discourse about how how rocky her
marriage was that ensues you could still
if you really want to google around you
can find out about her her struggles in
marriage but she did she did make that
make that resolution now i mean that you
know you know if you wanted to you could
just have a mic drop on that on the
video there or just say look you know
is this about friendship or is this
about you know
love and marriage and what have you but
of course you know reality is much more
complicated than that so you were just
talking about the obverse obverse
meaning the other side of the quran you
know yeah okay
you know you and i both agree that
people shouldn't treat one another like
prostitutes right you know um
you know i try to be i try to be sex
positive you know what i mean i mean
we can still say you know isn't it a
wonderful thing if people can come
together and enjoy having sex with each
other when maybe that's all there is to
be enjoyed you know what i mean or
that's that's all you got you know what
i mean that's all you've got to share
that's all you've got to
you know take from whatever it's you
know even if you just look at that as a
non-optimal
if you've got lemons make lemonade you
know kind of thing well
here's the flip side
what if all you've got in your life is
love without sex what if all you've got
is a you know is a marriage with or a
relationship with someone where you know
so i look my point is even if we're
going to say it's bad we still have to
kind of admit it
there's a kind of legitimacy to it um in
an imperfect world
you can have love without sex you can
jump in here i've got some more to say
but i can i can hit up i can hit pause
yeah well i i just want to say in
addition to that um
there is in sexuality and human
sexuality there is a certain amount of
objectification that is just
that i i for a long time didn't want to
accept i wanted to accept that uh
love and sex were part of some higher
spiritual
um
[Music]
unreal kind of unreal thing like that
there was something
really connecting you to this person
that's not just the body not just
physical um and in this way like i i
wanted like i think some people will
like try to overcome this this repulsion
and getting back to the question that
was asked you know like that oh well am
i really that shallow that because i'm
not
i don't i don't get this very uh strong
sexual attraction to somebody or i'm
actually repulsed to them that even
though they have all these other
characteristics that i admire even
positive things about them
am i that shallow that i'm going to
ignore those things and instead focus on
uh this one thing that's one part of our
lives the sexual thing so yeah but
it has taken some getting used to that
like yes there is a certain amount of
objectification that just happens like
you you have to be like
um
sexually interested in them like in
their body in in who they are as a
person um
is some amount of some amount of that i
i mean you can tell me if you disagree
with it it would be interesting to hear
like i want to respond with an anecdote
now i'm intentionally changing some of
the geography and details here and
you'll you'll see why
but there was a woman
and let's say she was 32 years old
and married and let's say she's been
married for five years like she'd been
married for a significant length of time
but not forever so let's say she's 32
years old she's and let's say she lived
in colorado so some of these of course
some of these are details i don't
actually remember i don't remember
exactly how many years uh you know and
you know she started talking to me
because she was vegan and she was a fan
of the channel and i just say from my
perspective she was a really good friend
and i really appreciated having a
friendship we just talked about normal
real life stuff uh we talked about some
of the things i was researching and
making youtube videos about and we
talked about just normal real life stuff
and i but i really did value her as a
friend but she and i were just friends
now
we stopped talking she decided to stop
talking to me when she basically
admitted to herself and admitted to me
that she was falling in love with me but
she was really obsessed with me and this
is like for her this was really a kind
of sexual obsession
which for me it wasn't but you know
that's that's okay
um but her situation was this and the
relevance to this conversation and by
the way i don't know if i'll ever hear
from her again i you know again just as
friends whatever i i really i really
would like to hear from her but for her
i think she felt that this was
destroying her life um she was sinking
into some kind of obsessive set of
behaviors towards which which by the way
i couldn't perceive like i mean you know
it's at her end of the wire like you
know i don't know what's going on her
head
uh but you know as far as her
conversations with me or something there
wasn't there wasn't anything disturbing
or obsessive about it you know for my
that i could see from my perspective but
you know when people tell you that
believe them
for all i know she's got a voodoo doll
stabbing a voodoo doll or something you
know um
you gotta take those things seriously
when people when people share that with
you okay but this is her situation okay
uh she was married to a guy
who in my opinion looked better than
john venus okay so we had john venus
which i'll just use he was a really
good-looking
male bodybuilder type now it wasn't his
career but that's what he looked like so
obviously a lot of people looking at
this scenario if they knew
all the people involved would say
why is this woman even interested in
isil mazard let alone getting obsessed
with them or falling in love with him or
something when you are married to this
this unbelievable example of uh male
fitness a male you know male people he
had a handsome face too but i mean
obviously from the neck down this guy's
body was the product of a lot of a very
hard work
um i so if you're my friend in real life
some people watching this are my friends
i very rarely ask questions um i i'm not
nosy with my friends i don't ask
questions that dig into their their
business i kind of let my friends uh
tell me these kind of personal things in
their own time
and by the way that sometimes creates
tension with my friends because they ask
like oh well why aren't you
interrogating me and asking for details
because they expect their friends to be
to be nosy but you know um
what she said to me about her marriage
simply was there is
absolutely
zero
sex
and you know i i said i said something
like well come on what's what does zero
mean do you mean once a week do you mean
once a month like like zero means
different things to different people she
was like no
zero
zero times per month there is
sex in this marriage
okay so
what i'm getting at here and this is a
vivid way of of describing it
how attractive someone is to you how
attracted you are to them as well as how
objectively attractive like i'm sure
i'm sure if they show off together as a
couple in public people say oh wow what
a good looking couple and what a good
looking guy and whatever they can go to
the beach and you can show off his
muscles she may be the envy of other
women like other women might think oh
wow it must be amazing to be married to
this this bodybuilder type guy okay and
the reality is
zero
sex um
the point is
how attracted you are to someone
uh
is a completely separate variable
from the quantity of sex
and it's a completely separate variable
from the quality
of sex right
this is true both from a man's
perspective and from a woman's
perspective i think there's there are a
lot of stereotypes like this is only a
problem women have respond no sex can be
bad for men too you know what i'm saying
so how attractive someone is to you
whether you feel attracted to them
separate categories separate uh set of
questions separate criteria now just i'm
just going to close this anecdote by
saying you know like i was amazed to
hear this
and also i mean in my mind i mean given
her rage so again this is a made-up
number let's say she was she was 32. i
honestly don't but you know whatever she
wasn't she wasn't some
young kid in this in this marriage my
perspective was like oh well it's just a
matter of time until you divorce him
like
you know i never i didn't say that to
her i didn't ask her i didn't ask her
like so are you getting divorced but
like in my mind so i just think oh okay
well
you know like again it's just like well
if there is actually zero sex you know
you didn't get married to live like a
buddhist monk or something like this
can't this camp you know
i take it that is not her perspective i
take it even though again she became
kind of infatuated with me or whatever
became obsessed with me i take it she
feels
that she can make this marriage work and
that is
love without sex or some kind of
relationship uh without sex two things
really briefly so that my most recent
video was talking about bodybuilders and
the side effects they get i mean two
theories about why that relationship had
no sex one one theory is of course the
guy could be a repressed homosexual it
could be that he's a very good looking
guy but he doesn't want to admit to
himself that he's actually homosexual
whether that's of course that exists
it's possible but another possibility is
that he's uh he's a bodybuilder with
experience using testosterone boosting
drugs drugs that mess with your hormone
levels as a man is very very common a
lot of bodybuilders refer this to being
shut down
being shut down temporarily or
permanently meaning they can't get an
erection at all
and uh i i read recently when i was
doing some fact checking for one of my
videos i read a guy's account of just
being on sarms sarms sarms it's a type
it's a competitor with steroids it's an
alternative to steroids another class of
this type of drug and he was just
describing completely matter-of-factly
losing the ability to have an erection
at all for for months at a time and so
on and these guys they get used to you
know playing those games with those
girls so just say that is it is possible
that was a biologically real problem the
guy had and hey coming back to the title
of this video it's possible he wasn't
attracted to her it's possible for him
also it's maybe not maybe he's not gay
maybe he's not you know shut down from
using testosterone boosting drugs
whatever maybe he doesn't want to have
sex with her maybe you know like for all
the reasons we've been philosophizing
about in this video so we we gotta
humanize and sympathize with his
perspective too because it takes two to
tango it takes two people to to not have
sex yeah
no i was just i'm
not related to this part of yeah any
direction
yeah but no i was just i had a thought
when you were talking about how
um somebody who's with a bodybuilder
like they just wonder how they could
become infatuated with somebody like
isil uh right and other people have
directed this to me too like oh well you
were with a younger man like me and
you're now going to be with the
not not younger than me but a man who
was relatively young and you're you're
going for somebody who's who's so much
older than you like what is what is the
deal here um and like you know a lot a
lot of people will try to just like
generalize and say like oh my type is
i'm into older men or like my title is
i'm you know i'm into this or that um a
lot of people just want to make
assumptions about you and and um you
know it's it's fine you know it's kind
of human nature to kind of wonder about
these things like where uh where these
things come from but like so yeah in
this response like you know if you're
with somebody
you know why are you attracted to this
person and yeah it's just a very like i
think
not it's just a not understanding
not very understanding of human nature
that like right yes you can be in a
relationship with somebody but be
sexually infatuated with somebody else
you can be interested in somebody else
for various reasons and then you become
sexually interested in them like
it's
it's just it happens
that's that's human nature you know um
so yeah i i
i think that especially you know given
that i'm i'm in this position where i'm
attracted to you like i can understand
how somebody would would become
infatuated with you even sexually
obsessed you know like it's it happens
like
yeah so yeah um
it's sometimes it's it's not really like
something that can be explained just by
type or because of
you know a logical reason there's a lot
of us that is just illogical and um
yeah and for that reason i think it
messes with people's heads like well if
this is so irrational so logical to me i
can't understand why you do this and
um yeah it's it's
it's frustrating for like both sides
then like for for that person that is
being interrogated like how you could be
interested in this person right it's
also like frustrating for the other
person that seems to be so confused it's
like well
sorry like i mean it's it's
it's attraction you know like
you can't help it it depends on i mean
of course there's one thing to be
attracted to somebody but it's another
thing to act on it right is getting back
to this point of like look i i wouldn't
compare so you're really vaguely
alluding to the people who kind of judge
and dismiss this relationship either in
your life or random people on the
internet yes but there is a big
difference between not understanding
something and refusing to understand
something because you don't want to
understand it and i think the easiest
way to illustrate that is racism
so you know when i was studying first
nations people so first nations is our
politically correct term in canada for
what are otherwise called native
americans indigenous people
american indians etc you know but you
know obviously a huge percentage of
those people are in interracial
marriages or relationships there aren't
that many indigenous people around
because it's due to genocide so a lot of
the a lot of them are
indigenous people married to white women
or
white men traditionally like it's just
it's very common and you know one of the
main responses those people got from
their families
was oh
why would you choose to be with someone
who's non-white when you could be with
someone who's white you know i just
don't understand i mean and this is this
is just racism it's not i mean it's not
that they don't understand they're
choosing to understand and i know
depending on where you live there are
people would be like this if you're a
white person getting married to a black
person or black person getting married
or if you're crossing any of these um
you know more or less imaginary
boundaries between ethnic and and racial
groups and of course what's really going
on there is a refusal to evaluate this
person as a unique human being you know
now you know i i
i just don't believe i mean if anyone
just watched this one video the video
we're recording right now you don't
think you can see what melissa likes
about me like really you can't imagine
what the redeeming qualities are that i
have that that other men don't have just
within this one conversation really you
know even if i were ugly even if i were
100 pounds fatter than i am or something
or even if you subjectively feel them
ugly you can tell what the qualities are
that she responds to or you know what
some of them are
admittedly you can't you can't but you
can see enough about what makes this
person you know uniquely appealing or
important to her uh where even if she
had an aversion to dating someone who
was 10 years old than her and i'm more
than 10 years old but you know i mean
even if you had some aversion to that in
theory that that would overcome that
aversion and a lot of people do a lot of
people have an aversion to marrying
someone from a different culture or
ethnic different ethnic group but this
particular person has redeeming
qualities that are more important than
that you know again my point being they
may be racist themselves they may be
prejudiced themselves or they may just
have personal preferences that go
against the particular the particular
pairing but you know there's some
quality this person has that's that's
much more that's much more important so
i want to respond this is a really short
comment but scarface uh comments uh
shout out to scarface uh
is being sexy important to you so the
point here is the person you're you're
pursuing the person you're you're going
to follow
is it important to you that they're that
they're sexy so look um
it's really easy to talk about this
stuff as if we design
the person we're going to fall in love
with on a chalkboard you know as if
you're like oh well this is the kind of
person i want and then they materialize
and by the way a lot of religious groups
and like new age cult groups they make
that out to the case oh you know ask the
universe for what you want to probably
visualize what you want a partner then
manifest them
there's a lot people pay money for that
[ __ ] people want to live that lie
you know i mean that's a that's a
fantasy people really act out you know
what i mean
um you know so the
shout
thanks oliver
don't try to steal melissa from me all
over
that would be an age gap relationship
if melissa leaves me for all of her
that'll be down to the age gap going the
other way
anyway um
uh uh uh
okay so look you know my ex-wife
when i met her
was a a european woman
enrolled in a phd program at a european
university doing research in
asia okay
so i was sexually involved with a woman
immediately before her it would be an
exaggeration to say she was my
girlfriend like it was kind of like the
the try and see stage and we spent some
time together and stuff
uh i i feel it would be an exaggeration
to say that she was an ex-girlfriend of
mine but we you know we did sleep in the
same bed a couple times you know and uh
you know the woman i was involved with
immediately before my ex-wife
was a white european phd candidate doing
research for her phd at a
european university
in in china like on a research trip now
anyone could look at that and say oh
well that's your type or that's
you could you could you could uh impose
all kinds of analytical frameworks on
that you know no i don't work from a
chalkboard i didn't write down what i'm
looking for yeah you know a certain age
certain height certain you know you must
be getting a phd no
no no like the the point is who who am i
gonna date who am i going to try to fall
in love with who's going to fall in love
with me what's what's available to me
now they're two totally different women
in millennials but there are obviously
there are some striking similarities and
we ended up meeting her
and um you know it was it was upsetting
for my ex-wife i obviously weren't
married yet then it was at the beginning
of a relationship we were just in our
house but it was upsetting for her to
meet someone who you know seemed to be
in love with me i mean however deep
rochelle was you know some there's still
some feelings there you know and to see
this other woman who was kind of in the
same position she was in in life and you
know what i mean
you could see the kind of paths you know
parting ways here so look you know
either one of those women um did i
choose them because they were sexy no
did i choose them over other women
because they were sexy no were they the
most beautiful or the most sexy women
available to me at that time no look i
could tell you about women who were who
were taking a swing at me in those same
few months kind of thing who were
gorgeous you know who were much better
looking objectively and subjectively no
that's not what i'm looking for you know
like what i want is to have a meaningful
life and i'm looking for women who can
share that meaningful life with me and
you know a certain kind of dignity a
certain kind of a certain kind of
relationship together you know what i
mean a certain certain kind of
cooperation to put it bluntly in the
relationship right and that is way more
important to me than how sexy someone is
right now i mean melissa knows this this
is a funny story i think i've never told
this on on youtube before it's a very
short story there were several really
beautiful women pursuing me at the time
uh you know melissa first was coming
into my life so we didn't have any
commitment yet you know
um
but one of them was a was a professional
model at that time she wasn't a retired
model she was doing modeling at that
time and uh that included swimsuit
modeling
and
she did she did not do pornography but
she did you know she did modeling that
was showing off her body uh i think also
like like four four fashion magazines
she did
modeling where she was wearing lingerie
like to sell them to advertise the
lingerie right
and you know
uh
i'll remember the special like that my
that was my father was literally on his
deathbed you know and i was trying to
get along with him because my
my father and i did not have that
greater relationship what are you going
to talk about my father was a very
shallow guy
and i remember uh i chit-chatted with my
my father about it he's literally lying
down to die and he died only a couple
weeks later really this is his last
couple weeks away wow
and i remember uh sending my father
pictures of maybe the three women who
were kind of front runners you know it's
like well you know they're three
different women who were talking to me
and you know at that time it wasn't
clear when i would meet or if i would
meet melissa but like it seemed
reasonable that time i suppose like
maybe i was gonna meet one of these
women like six months or three months
down the road like it's just it's just
not that easy to arrange meeting people
flying around the world
anyway and uh you know i sent the i sent
some of the pictures to my father of who
these women were typing what was going
on in my life that way and my father was
like oh oh oh
choose the lingerie mom
i was like oh the the swimsuit no no no
no no no don't don't be hasty you know
you
show up it's over you know you'll regret
this later you know what i mean so
you know um
now you know that woman i i am not
saying she was only sexy i'm not saying
that's her only redeemer i could say all
kinds of positive things about her
otherwise but you know
at every stage of my life i could say to
you no that's not the most important
factor um
uh and you know there have been times
when i didn't even feel it was in the
top ten like when i felt it was such a
low priority you know and that and and
you know part of the reason why this
video is as philosophically nuanced as
it is is that i feel conflicted about
that you know and i think there's some
other person who could look at my life
and say i'm living completely the wrong
way for that reason
right
but you know
what i am pursuing
is not a beautiful woman
and it's not the most beautiful woman
and i'm not even pursuing sexual
gratification and i'm not pursuing sex
i'm pursuing a meaningful life
and if there is a woman who can be a
part of really leading a meaningful life
with me right
then i want that woman to be with me and
if not get the [ __ ] out i don't need you
i'd rather be alone no matter how
beautiful you are no matter how sexy you
are right so i was just gonna say my
self-confidence
doesn't come from
having an enormous penis it doesn't come
from being great in bed it doesn't
my self-confidence is
i'm leading a meaningful life with or
without you so are you with me or what
that's how i live my life with everybody
you know and like there's no way no
matter how good you are at sex no matter
how good you are in bed no matter how
good you are giving women orgasms and
you know admittedly these are my my
advantages like no matter how handsome
you are or how ugly you are no matter
how tall you are
like
i think most people they don't realize
this because they've never thought it
through know
the most important form of confidence
comes from the fact that i'm leading a
meaningful life period and like at this
stage right now i'm i'm 42. you could
talk about when this was true because
this can't possibly be true when you're
16 years old like you can't you cannot
be living a meaningful life on your own
terms at 16. i think it's impossible at
that stage you know like when it's
really possible whether that's 22 or
what like you know maybe for some people
it is already at 18 or something but
it's really when you're young it's
really hard to be living a meaningful
life your insurance because you're still
living in your parents shadow like even
if financially even if you're earning
your own money almost everything you
know is just [ __ ] your parents told
you [ __ ] your teachers told you you
haven't read that many books you have
nothing like to really be leading a
beautiful life in your own terms i think
it's completely impossible at 16 exactly
when it becomes possible people's is
another is another story but you know
whether you're whether you've got that
at 25 or 35 or whenever you've got it
that the most important form of
confidence is i know how to lead a
meaningful life and i'm doing it with or
without you i'm doing it with or without
money if i have to work at mcdonald's
i'm still me i'm still living a
meaningful life on my terms i'm not
afraid to look at work at mcdonald's i'm
not afraid to join the army i'm not like
you know what i mean i go to join the
army i bring my meaningful life with me
you know what i mean i'm not like uh say
this real because we talked about this
from a lot of different perspective at
this stage in my life i'm not afraid to
do porn i could do hardcore porn and my
self-esteem is not gonna suffer i'm not
gonna feel like i'm a person of no
intellectual substance you know what i
mean i'm not going to feel like you know
i just make my my living in this crude
way
now if you go into hardcore porn at age
18 right that's that's really different
right like whatever denigration i have
to suffer in my life i have that
confidence of really leading a
meaningful life so like that is that is
the way like i relate to
women
and of course it's on a way lower level
of intensity but in as much as men are
going to be my friends or colleagues
right that's how i relate to men also
and by the way i'm heterosexual but you
know like so there's no seduction there
but like no i'm only friends with sexy
guys
no no no no but but but but keeping it
all the way real uh uh uh
you can have a heterosexual friendship a
totally non-sexual friendship right
but where you're needy where one person
is needy you know what i mean and of
course you can have a sexual
relationship but it's like no no bro i'm
leaving this moment you you want in or
not you with me or what you know what i
mean i don't need you like you know i
don't need you [ __ ] i don't need you
bro like whatever man you know that's it
you know so that's also yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah now she's been with me
four and a half years she knows i know
yeah i know it yeah i know it
that's true
so no like i know that was a long answer
to a one sentence thing
but like
a lot of people would not be able to
comprehend just how [ __ ] true that is
to me you know
and
yeah you know in terms of the role of
sexuality and attractiveness and sex you
know in life and i'm i'm totally willing
to sit here and say you know maybe i'm
wrong and maybe my philosophy wouldn't
work for you you know what i mean like
i'm i don't think i'm handing down
something here like the law of gravity
that's true for everyone in all
circumstances you know what i mean but
this is
this is what i know to be true and these
are the rules of the game as i play it
when i take on all the advantages and
disadvantages that come with that like
you know okay if this is the first time
you've seen a [ __ ] video on my
channel if you've never heard my voice
before maybe there's some people in the
audience hit thumbs up we've got 42
people in the audience we should have 42
thumbs up bro come on give me the thumbs
up somewhere
if this is the only video you've ever
seen in my channel you know this i used
to live in thailand laos and cambodia i
could have slept with 100 women just in
thailand you know easily
it would have been no challenge for me
to sleep with 100 women when i was in
thailand and like aside from like the
the girlfriend i brought with me i slept
with zero like i had a white canadian
girlfriend i brought with me i slept
with
zero right so there are a lot of people
who will listen to this philosophy like
oh yeah you know that's really that's
really philosophically interesting oh
gee that's interesting and then they
will say they would prefer to sleep with
a hundred hoebags you know
they'd rather they're like yeah well
all this profound stuff being taken
they'll take 100 you know anonymous
shameful one-night stands instead right
but not me
you know and those dudes who sleep with
100 women they they have to live with uh
they have to live with a different kind
of burden than what i've got you know do
you want to jump in at that point i mean
sorry
there's so many aspects to this
yeah
no i think that's that's real that
i know you really well now i mean i know
you better than probably anybody else
and what you say is is really true that
you are devoted to living a meaningful
life all the time and if somebody is not
bored then
yeah you know
i know that sounds very um
it's not it can sound kind of harsh but
and like i don't know i've seen some
evidence to the contrary that like you
you do reach out to people to try to get
try to get them on yeah yeah like people
in your life yeah like hey i'm leading a
meaningful life how about you too right
yeah it's different when you are like
this this idea that relationship
shouldn't be based on neediness or like
you know i need somebody to to be there
for me but that's not how you are and
like people might criticize you for like
saying like oh like not being the type
of guy that will say like to me like you
know melissa i need you you know
yeah right
it's true yeah whereas other guys like
really have been like that
like
yeah i need you or like you know i you
know right okay so look i think that
neediness is a concept that way okay
like
there is such a thing as love out of
strength
and there's such a thing as love out of
weakness right and that culture of
neediness that is just taking
you know love out of weakness and
putting it up on this on this bed oh
yeah yeah
it's not good as opposed to like hey i
have the strength i have the surplus to
share with you what i've got to share i
can bring you into my life and i you
know we can both benefit from it but out
of strength as opposed to out of
weakness like oh
what would i do without you or so
like but a lot of people will criticize
you and say like oh well it's your
perspective is it's my way or the
highway like you know sure absolutely
right no but
i think i think smoking cigarettes is a
great example right yeah like look
obviously there is a sense in which i
could have exactly the same relationship
with melissa but three times a day she
goes outside to smoke a cigarette like
you know what i mean like there's a
sense you know what i mean which you say
and obviously with some other woman or
like you could say this like well what
is the big difference but sure there's
all kinds of stuff where it's like no
you know like these are kind of hard
minimum requirements hard limits either
you're either you're living a meaningful
life my way you'll get out it's better
to have that
yeah right
rather than saying well i will take
whatever i can get or i you know this
kind of attitude of being needy and
needing needing somebody's love and
affection and admiration all the time
like that you are not that way right you
know like
you are somebody who's like
it's not like
you were even like compliments like a
lot of the times you were just like no
no like you know i'm not looking for i'm
not fishing for compliments yes right
right this stuff i'm just talking about
my life i'm just talking about what i've
been through you know i'm not sharing
sharing what i'm about to share right no
and that's that's
that's awesome you know that's great
yeah
um a lot of people
you know i was just talking to you
earlier about this like
um you know a lot of people live kind of
ashamed of their lives and they don't
want to talk about people or if you do
have accomplishments in life or if you
do feel like you live a meaningful life
and there are things that you do that
you're proud of like talking with other
people the kind of reactions that you
get like
are oftentimes like either out of a
sense of
a lack in their part like they lack your
kind of confidence they lack your kind
of
sense of
like drive you know like that this is
the life that i have and and
i'm working towards something whether or
not anybody's with me yeah right a lot
of people don't have that and they might
respond in a negative way when you share
that so you know you remind me of an
idiom that i used to say like 20 years
ago
maybe 19 18 years ago i remember i said
to people
what if you are an elvis impersonator
and you live in a culture where nobody
has ever heard of elvis
like you can get on stage at the county
fair you can perform in front of other
people and they have no idea how well or
badly you're trying to you know imitate
or emulate the distinctive sound and
style of elvis they just know that
you're dressed up in strange clothes you
know what i mean so i mean obviously
what culture you'd have to imagine you
know
remote island in papua new guinea or
something because elvis is so famous
there are very few you can at least
imagine hypothetically there's some town
somewhere where nobody's seen a picture
of elvis nobody's heard his music
nobody's whatever and you are an elvis
impersonator i can remember saying to
people doing what i do as an
intellectual
this is like being the only elvis
impersonator in a town where nobody else
has heard of elvis so like i think
that's actually sorry i haven't said
that definitely for more than 10 15
years i've never said that but i used to
say people face to face you know um i
think that gives a really good sense
though of how
it's not that i feel unappreciated in a
needy or resentful way you know what i
mean it's not like i need your approval
science like look i'm aware that what
i'm doing as an art form is something
you can't relate to you can't appreciate
or that you like like the vast majority
of people you can only respond to on
this really strange surface level that's
irrelevant to the point of the art form
like you know again people who've never
heard of elvis they just know like oh
wow that's a really strange you know
outfit he's wearing like he's wearing
really strange clothes and oh gee you
know like there were a lot they're kind
of peering at the distinctive aspects of
this but they don't know why and they
don't know what the purpose is and they
also maybe don't know the the sentiment
the emotional significance of what it is
you're you know you're you're doing so
yeah i mean that's um
you know it i i've got to say honestly i
think if you're not at peace with that
you'll commit suicide like if you live
your life
wanting approval from people that way
you know like dude we've i think i've
never said this on the channel but like
really i mean this in any walk of life
not just being an artist or a performer
not just being an author or a creative
person or a youtuber but i think if you
are going around expecting the crowd to
appreciate your elvis impersonation like
the distinctive art form you've got that
way and you know if you've mistaken that
for the meaning of life or a meaningful
life that is really going to lead you to
to suicide
so yeah i i i had already committed to
this
you know disciplined but reckless path
of being like look i'm going to be the
best elvis impersonator in my generation
even if nobody here has heard of elvis
presley yeah yeah yeah yeah and the
reality is i mean bringing it back to
this this the topic of this video
women see that and they want to [ __ ] you
like you know well you know what i mean
like just say yeah yeah yeah
no no no
no no but i mean it is i mean i think it
is true and a lot of my other videos
about sexuality have talked about that
some people get it and some people don't
but most people don't so you guys might
remember a couple months ago or
something i talked about look if you get
out and you start putting on
uh william shakespeare it's a great idea
you can steal this idea from say hey
we're going to do
william shakespeare's julius caesar with
an all black cast and we're gonna call
it black caesar we're gonna do live
theater you know and then you have all
these actors and all these people
involved and you're the director and
producer for an all black cast
you know reinterpreting william
shakespeare
as some kind of political commentary on
donald trump or something whatever
you're doing with it you know like i
know it may not be obvious to you that
this will lead to people falling in love
with you and having me having meaningful
friendships with you also having
relationships with you but yeah it does
you know what i mean like this taking on
this kind of ambition and really the
pursuit of excellence you know
women who don't understand
what it is you're doing they don't
understand what the excellence is that
you're in pursuit of but they they pick
up on those characteristics and they
think hey they want to have a child with
you they want to raise a child with you
you know that's these are the deeper
sources of attraction like it's not just
a one you know you may have a one-night
stand but they're people who are going
to be really reacting to you that way
that's
that's my self-centered you know uh
advice on that and somebody else can now
write in some hopeless in-cell come
right in and say no no no that's not
true and they've had they've had some
terrible experiences to the to the
contrary yeah so look you know um the
title of the video
i mean it seems to me that you and i
both are kind of at a consensus on this
that
love without sex
we won't go quite so far as to say it it
doesn't exist right
but like if you're you're talking about
getting married to someone you find
unattractive or repulsive like what what
is your
what is your conclusion on this i mean
you can disagree with me but i think
there are many examples in history and
literature and culture
cultural studies if you if you look back
of on many different sure
couples in history that
they weren't attracted to each other but
you know
this
is
relatively new the fact that everybody
has
the freedom to choose their partner
based off of their sexual attraction to
that person um and i remember just
recently you recorded a video where you
know talking about
just having pride in being a housewife
or something like or
men that will
be proud to
this kind of this kind of pride and just
like they're taking on the role of being
a wife or a husband like some people
might live for that you know but um
living i think generally the dream is
for a lot of people is to to be with
somebody that they're sexually attracted
to yeah um but yeah i mean even that
it's kind of tragic because everybody
gets old and like even if you think that
you'll always be attracted to the person
that you're with
right everybody gets old or some people
might oh okay but look you know so we
have talked about this before but like
if i am struck by a bolt of lightning
and then i'm in a wheelchair for the
rest of my life
you would still have the memory of four
and a half years of amazing sex in this
relationship
and look i've got to say the same
melissa could both of lightning might
not be a good example but some bizarre
and unlikely accident could uh make her
paralyzed from the waist down or
something right and then the sexual
aspect of our relationship disappears
but i would have forever the memory of
the four and a half years of really
great sex before that that's totally
different from being in a relationship
with someone you never were attracted to
you never had the great sex with you
know what i mean and we've we've talked
about i mean we're not planning to get
struck by a bolt of lightning but i
think both of course we can make it work
of course there's so much else besides
sex in this relationship that makes work
but that's still not the same as
committing to
you know love without sex
you know now i'll just say this guys i
think it is
nacho says don't jinx yourself right
um yeah anyway thanks for the comments
guys you know if it's on topic i'm happy
to uh
no look i think it's very rare
that it's useful to talk about a perfect
world what we would do in a perfect
world you know what you do under optimal
conditions but sometimes
sometimes it's worth it's worth talking
about you know to compare to the
compromises people make and what's
pragmatically possible sometimes it's
worth talking about now you know for the
woman who wrote in
asking for help in the first place i
think it's actually really important to
say look in a perfect world you would
just be friends with this guy
and
based on my knowledge i don't know that
much we had a few more messages back and
forth talking about the details but
based on my understanding the situation
you [ __ ] up
because you [ __ ] up what could have
been a good friendship and turned it
into a horrible sexual relationship and
sorry to take it that far but like you
know that's what it is
this is a bad sexual relationship this
is a horrible
sexual relationship and apparently it's
not that bad for the guy apparently it's
just that bad for the woman but you know
it could be it could be it's also bad
for him like based on because there were
some more details about the actual sex
in this relationship
i've got to be real with you it does not
sound to me like it's good for him
either i don't know what
his perspective is but like objectively
based on what you told me about the
actual sex in this relationship
you know it's bad for you it is it is at
least not great for him it could be
mediocre to bad for him also and he may
be a guy for whatever reason that's not
his priority that's not definitive for
him but i i think in this case we have
to hold up the perfect world scenario
and say look in a perfect world you
would just be friends
and that
that itself when you hold that up to
them the reality you're stepping into
no
from my perspective it's open and shut
you would be better off now just
completely ending this relationship even
if that's it involves terrible hardship
for both of you i think you'd be better
off ending this relationship even if you
were then celibate for the rest of your
life if there is no
next relationship i'm being real with
you that's how i feel about i would
rather be alone i'd rather be alone for
the rest of my life than be in a bad
relationship and guys i got divorced
like i was married to someone legally
and she was totally in love with me when
she's obsessively in love with me i was
i was married to someone who was
obsessively in love with me and it's
like i would rather be alone for the
rest of my life than wake up with this
person and deal with this person like
this is it was that bad it was a
horrible relationship for me you know
what i mean you and you get to that
point where it's like look i don't know
what the consequences are you know
however bad the consequences are this is
the decision i i have to make now that's
that's a lot harder because my you know
you get into the details of what my
situation was and what the it was a
tremendous sacrifice tremendous you know
getting divorced was
inconvenient to say the least and it's
had knock-on effects including financial
costs just having to employ so many
lawyers it's missed in my life in a lot
of ways but bro
i never regret it every every day i wake
up and i am so glad that i do not have
to put up with that woman that i do not
have to endure her abuse for one more
day in my life or one more minute in my
life you know what i mean i am so glad i
have that woman out of my life you know
what i mean that all of the terrible
costs involved i'm
you know of course i'm happy to endure
them i'm happy i'm i'm just so happy i
got divorced right so look i gotta say
from my perspective
you know
that's completely clear i don't know
baby you mentioned the historical fact
that in many cultures for many centuries
people regarded marriage instead as a
matter of duty matter of honor
and and a matter of economic convenience
i mean there was money involved do you
feel that's a counterweight don't say
how do you take wherever you want to
take it i mean
i think those are examples of love
without sex yeah
right i guess or sex without love right
probably sex without love in that
situation but
no i i think
what you said earlier where somebody
might ask
is a different topic but where somebody
why did you marry a white man if or why
did you marry a native person like some
people who are directly racist about
this you know this is in some ways been
directed toward me you know in this
relationship like you know um because
i'm jewish yeah oh yeah right um
yeah but so i guess first i forget that
from the perspective of millions of
people i'm considered non-white i forget
that sometimes
yeah yeah for some people maybe that is
their primary goal they yes they like
you said they work from a chalkboard
they're looking for somebody who is
there from their cultural background
their race and a whole
a whole country like a whole like
millions and millions maybe even perhaps
a billion people they they still are
tied to this system of
arranged marriage you know like you know
in a sense those sometimes you do get a
choice but it's still this is still
fairly common in the world right that
people aren't choosing the person that
they they want to be with
right but i mean look there are there
are two or three very simple criteria to
hold after that okay getting married to
someone where your relationship is going
to be love without sex or sex without
love or both
you know this is kind of bad okay it's
one thing to say that is a fate worse
than death
some people would take it that far okay
it's another thing to say
that is a fate worse than marrying
someone else
you still got a choice you could marry
some other dude you know what i mean you
could just pursue another like which is
a really low criterion oh well that's
worse okay and then there is that is a
fate worse than celibacy worse than
being alone like what's so bad about
being alone you know different people
feel about this different ways but you
know after i broke up with my ex-wife i
was not in a hurry to get into a new
relationship and i i did i had
all kinds of different women after me
and when i was not pursuing them at all
and it's each woman was unique it's a
different story in every case i can't
i can't
generalize about it
but you know no like i think also you
have to be at peace with if i turn this
person down maybe i'm never going to
find love maybe i'm never going to find
a relationship that works for me in all
these different ways whether sexually
intellectually economically you know so
on and so forth you know what i'm saying
yeah so
you know you don't have to take it as
far as claiming this is a fate worse
than death and there's another dude
involved here there's the woman and
there's the dude who wants to marry her
and have kids with her right
he could marry someone
who is attracted to him
he could marry someone who really enjoys
having sex with him he could marry
someone he does have that chemistry and
does have that compatibility with
there's no reason to assume that he is
going to live in celibacy for the rest
of his life if you if you break off this
relationship now again i think it's
worth saying that it's still the right
thing to do if you break up with him and
he never finds another woman he's in
love with he never gets married you got
to say look i'm still doing the right
thing because it's the right thing to do
right yeah that goes back to no
something that um you were talking about
earlier
definitely like you might feel that it
is
on you like that this is
if you break up with this person right
like to the original person who wrote in
like
like it's your problem horrible for for
you if you broke up with him because of
this
you know one issue that you have in the
relationship but if this is if this is
the issue
and you don't see that there's something
that can change fundamentally about this
propulsion to
uh your partner then yeah i do think
it's kind of your responsibility and i
like
i like your view of feminism um and i i
embrace it more and more as i get older
because i can look back at different
times in my life when i
should have seen myself as the
rather than the passenger seat in my
life i am the driver in my life like i
am the person that's making these
decisions
when at the time it felt like i was just
yeah you were just doing this yeah i was
the witness to this thing happening to
me um so yeah that that really needs to
be a cultural shift in in the lives of
women because women do have the same
rights as men like we have the same
capabilities and and intellectual
potential as as men and also the
responsibility has to lie with us too so
like you know when you say that this
woman [ __ ] up by
starting this relationship when she
wasn't attracted to them like i feel
that i've i've freaking been there it's
terrible and like you know you feel like
once you've gotten to this stage and
once once you
have gotten far enough it's like what do
i do now and you have to make these
really hard decisions and yeah it can
lead to heartbreak so i am just going to
say this to kind of affirm our
conclusions here
but i think it's an important like
affirmation of or extension of these
conclusions which is that i think like
what you and i have just said at the end
of this discussion i think it's still
true and it is neither more nor less
true if you're talking about an open
relationship if you're talking about
polygamy polyandry
uh polyamory whatever you want to say
because you know right
some people would say that it's okay to
have this kind of loveless or sexless
marriage
uh
because you can supplement it with other
partners and i feel like no that makes
it worse
because okay it's one thing to be in a
relationship where you are in love you
are attracted to the person you do have
great sex with that person and then you
also
once in a while invite someone else into
the bedroom whether that's for three
ways in four ways or
um you know or whatever you go and meet
up with them when you have a positive
sexual connection with your husband or
wife
and then you supplement that with
some kind of polyamory or open
relationship okay that is
totally night and day different from
being in a relationship where you're not
attracted to the person you're like all
these problems we just talked about
right you're not sexually compatible and
then you're compensating by having
affairs or relationships with people you
do have that connection with like to me
that's you know that's like the worst
nightmare and it's i think that's bad
for everybody like i think that's bad
for all of the partners in in the
constellation yeah so okay yeah but i
feel like it's the same conclusion but
even worse if we're going to include
open relationships yeah yeah i just want
to say i used to find it funny because
we would talk about like different
political leaders like for example
napoleon right he was married yes right
um
but in effect like you used to say
things like oh well they had a swinging
relationship or something right
because the original the original
appearance was prostitutes that is like
the original just other women too yeah
he was sleeping with you right yeah yeah
not all of them were prostitutes yeah
yeah also there was somebody else
recently yes you're talking about um so
lee harvey oswald oh yeah right well not
only was he like maybe having an affair
with somebody that he met at a party but
like lee harvey oswald's wife marina
like she was in effect she was having an
affair with somebody else right yeah so
like this this happens way more than you
might think and like historical examples
like uh you would like paul pott you
told me about like ho chi minh oh yeah
before we invented these fancy terms
like polyamory and open relationship
there always was quote-unquote screwing
around i mean there were there always
was screwing around everyone had you
know there always were couples that were
that were relaxed about it i mean in
french culture especially you know that
you know yeah having other partners
under some circumstances or whatever
this has always existed yes it has
always existed and it's different i
agree with you it's completely different
if you're in a relationship with
somebody and it's like ethical
non-monogamy where you're oh you're all
consenting partners of this versus
you're hiding something you're making it
secretive you're uh and also you know
you're not satisfied with the first
relationship you know like whether it's
these historical examples or just any
you know any person any couple you might
see on the street you know like you
don't know what their yeah their story
is but you know affairs are so common
and yeah uh because
in any culture even the most permissive
culture people can't people can't be
honest about it so i knew a guy i knew a
guy in toronto um so this was in my last
year of high school and i forget if he
had failed one grade or two grades but
he was older
uh so by the way at that time in canada
high school was five years long not four
years long so i was already a year older
than what you today would think about
his last year of high school everyone
was because the system was different and
then this guy i knew i forget if he was
one or two years older because he had
hid in effect failed grades it wasn't
his fault his you know his parents moved
around whatever you know he had missed
some years and had to make them up
afterwards so he was he was more of a
college age guy
but i remember he described to me uh
going to a house party that time was run
house parties were a lot of the thing
and this girl who had a boyfriend
um
taking him outside the door of the of
the party the party was inside an
apartment this was the hallway in the
apartment building and she had sex with
him
leaning against the front door of the
apartment
while having her hand on the doorknob so
that her boyfriend the other side
wouldn't open the door she was cheating
on her boyfriend
at the house party and this was not the
only story or experience he he had this
way during the time i knew him like i
knew him for one year and he was a bit
of a notorious character i mean other
people might remember him but he also
described to me a girl who arrived at a
bar
with her boyfriend she was there to
drink and go dancing with her boyfriend
and he went upstairs and had sex with
her at the nightclub
while her boyfriend was waiting for her
she told her boyfriend she was going to
the bathroom and they went and had sex
upstairs i knew i knew the bar i knew
the layout of that car it's a place i've
been it was a bar and live music venue
and you know this guy he had a number of
these number of these experiences
already as quite a young man
i i don't know ten i mean he hadn't had
a hundred experiences like this but he
really knew the extent to which married
women and women in committed boyfriend
girlfriend relationships were willing to
cheat
you know without really knowing the guy
without like pretty much just based on a
on a first impression and i have heard i
mean it's mostly i've heard
african-american celebrities talking
with us guys who are rappers or
uh somehow involved in the hip-hop
african-american world but you know um
[Music]
yes you know the the the capacity
of people to cheat
um
that's something that very few people
are honest about very people we're
willing to reflect on very few people
want to talk about their own lives oh
yeah and then when they are honest you
can imagine a lot of people responded
that'd be like oh you're making that up
or something or oh
you know there must be something else
the story must be that there was money
involved like you paid the person
no
you have to you know and you know sorry
i won't say but you know i'm not not a
big deal but it's always say with me
that you know like when i was in
cambodia
um so this i'll just tell this one
particular end up you can imagine this
is an anecdote that had parallels at
other times in cambodia laos and
thailand i remember um there was this
one bank i went to again again i was a
regular at the bank
and on the last day i went to the bank i
went to close my account because i was
leaving i was like well look i got to
close the account and take the money out
of it i was i was giving up on living in
cambodia
and um all the girls working at the bank
suddenly freaked out they had obviously
been talking about me for weeks or
months or a year or something they'd all
been talking about like oh you should
flirt with them you should ask them out
of the date like it was it was revealed
there was the sudden flurry of activity
because they realized this was their
last chance to finally do it that's
going to take so you can imagine i'm
kind of saying
i'm not i'm i'm i don't experience
jealousy and i don't have ego attached
to this like yeah well you know sour
grapes you missed you missed a chance
but it was a funny story at the time
that i'm standing there trying to close
my bank account and all of a sudden
there's this flurry of activity amongst
the all-female staff
of this bank who are trying to take
their last swing at bat and none of them
none of them had flirted with me before
like i just gone in to get you know
normal banking i didn't have any complex
conversations with any of these women
and i remember then i went back to my
apartment building
and a bunch of the guys were standing
around it's not worth explaining but my
why why i chitchatted with these guys
and i was like well they all knew i was
leaving cambodia i was like well i just
went to the bank for the last time and
you know basically the the women working
at the bank they they showed their cards
they were all like you know trying to
get me you know so i was just telling it
as a funny story but for me there's
really no ego involved and um
i remember the response from one of the
guys he was a white man married to a
cambodian woman he was like oh no that's
just because they know how much money is
in your bank account
you know of course it's like here it's
the exact it's like dude i've been
living on 300 a month like i've been
living in poverty like do you have any
idea how little money i make even
compared to cambodian people like like i
wasn't it's not only i am not rich by
canadian standards i was not rich by
cambodians like
are you you know you know so i just say
like when you're honest about this stuff
when you really talk about it um again
we were talking about about cheating
specifically and the way in which people
compensate for these things and their
their motivations and so on you know
there is this tremendous human capacity
i mean now this this guy's experience in
life i could say more describing him his
experience largely is either
prostitution or he's had a long string
of relationships with asian women that
resemble prostitution like it's you know
he's paying for things in their lives
and they're sleeping with him like you
know
um that's that's his experience and he's
trying to foist his framework of
analysis onto my experience he's trying
to force you know my experience in life
to resemble his own which it doesn't at
all
you know but yeah um
[Music]
you know
you know the the this sounds trite but
it's really serious you can never
compensate for something lacking
in one relationship with another
relationship you know that's true of
co-workers that's true of colleagues
that's true of friends and it's true of
your sexual relationship like your
marriage or your boyfriend or girlfriend
or whatever it is like okay so like
let's keep it all this is this is really
easy to understand
if i am in love with i am sleeping with
someone who is not smart enough for me
like they can't have intellectual
discussions the way i want to have
i can never compensate for that by
having a friend let's just say a male
friend a heterosexual male friend
uh who is intellectual enough who has a
decision never
never one does not compensate for the
other like the the black stain in your
life of waking up in the bedroom and
eating breakfast every day with someone
who can't relate to you intellectually
will never be compensated for by a male
friend you have who does have that
intellectual compatibility with who is
involved never
never and like sorry i'm preaching to
you because a lot of you [ __ ]
are kidding yourself but a lot of you
and people people get married and they
don't even have a [ __ ] language in
common you marry a russian chick because
she's hot you marry a woman from vietnam
because she's hot and like even if she's
intelligent in some sense you have no
common language like you have no
intellectual compatibility even if she's
intelligent in some way like she can do
math or something but you know she's not
it will never compensate for that so
like to me it really is the same thing
to say like if you have a husband or you
have a wife and you don't have an
emotional connection you don't have a
sexual connection whether that's in
terms of attraction or actual sex actual
orgasms you can never compensate for
that by by getting it elsewhere you know
what i mean
um
never
and like i think it only makes it worse
to try to compensate for it um
and you know so again i think the
intellectual thing is easier for people
to visualize like if you haven't been
through any of this [ __ ] like you know
let's say you're a novelist
you're writing novels and you marry this
bimbo
who can't can't even read that language
can't relate to what you're going
through as an intellectual as a creative
artist or the research you're doing and
stuff
the fact that you have friends maybe you
have friends who are also novelists who
are also in the publishing industry or
something and they are reading your work
and they are interested in what's going
on and they're they're engaged they're
asking you questions
that only makes it worse it's only going
to make it more intolerable that you
wake up every day and have breakfast
with someone who can't
appreciate that you know the level of
resentment
you know
uh like it it makes it worse you know
not not better so like what i'm saying
is compensation is not compensation and
then again like it's hard to visualize
okay
let's say you have a loveless marriage a
sexless marriage an orgasmless marriage
or someone you're not attracted to it
all and then there is somebody else
you're going and meeting up with and you
do have that chemistry and you do relate
that way
right
whoa
you know to me it's the same thing it's
the same thing
it's the same pattern as with the
compensating for the intellectual
deficit but um
yeah my point is compensation is not
compensation you know yeah yeah yeah
compensation is not compensation yeah
compensation is exacerbation you know
what i mean yeah and and to me that's
totally different so i just want to say
explicitly melissa is intelligent enough
to be with me she is
that doesn't mean it's effortless for
her no i yeah right it's his effort too
right right i know that i can like i
know that i can talk to you about these
right philosophical issues it's just
it's taken effort which a lot of people
don't put into their intellectual
life into their relationships you know
like and but like we had we had lunch
with a university professor the other
day
now it was a male university professor
but imagine that was a female university
professor
he or she would never be intelligent
enough to be with me you know what i
mean like so i just say there's a
concept of enough like you can be
intelligent enough doesn't mean it's no
effort for her she has to put in she has
to actually read books you know i mean
she has to make make an effort but when
you make that effort it's enough i mean
you know come on there are so many
people where it's you know you lead a
horse to water it doesn't matter they
can read the same books you've read and
they're it's never going to work it's
they're never going to no i mean yeah
look i mean we've talked frankly about
this that we're at different we're at
different intellectual levels right it
makes sense we're a different we're we
have a lot of different experiences and
you're 14 years older than me you know
there are a lot of things right but but
there's the concept of enough but i
wanted to yeah yeah yeah
and um over time i've become like a lot
more excited about like learning and and
wanting to have this relationship with
you and it's like it's not something
that like
um
like it's something that you have to
continue to work on and it's something
that like i'm i'm looking forward to
because i do want to be like that i do
want to be enriching that part of your
life as well like i don't want to just
be somebody that you have sex with or
somebody that you like
watch a movie with like that's right
a lot of relationships
are just like okay we have sex
we eat dinner together and we have a kid
together and that's like that's our
relationship like we watch tv together
right that's we play video games that's
that's our relationship like we consume
the same media right so like but in a
different way like if you're a creative
if you're trying to create something
like you know it could be
just having the respect for the other
person's creative potential respect for
the person what they're trying to do in
life like a lot of people just like you
said with i know it's an imperfect
comparison somebody said who are you
impersonating
with this idea of like you know being in
comprehension or something right the
younger generation or like anybody like
you could be in a culture where people
don't even know who elvis is i don't
know where in the world nobody would
know who elvis is but um it's possible
like you could be an impersonator of
elvis somewhere in the world where
people just don't get it right so but
when you come home to your wife yeah
your wife has to understand your act she
has to understand your music or whatever
it is oh yes
your wife has to get you yes right right
right right right
right right i suppose but what if what
if your wife doesn't get you what if
your wife hates elves or has never heard
about your wife doesn't understand but
you're cheating on her with a woman who
does so that's screwed up oh yeah and
then you talk to the
person who appreciates all this
impersonation oh my wife just doesn't
right well why are you right there you
know like a lot of people right
right right and i think you'd even be
better off alone maybe you can't be with
someone else but maybe you can be alone
maybe you can have your own meaningful
life on your own terms you know with its
with its own dignity but i would just
say look like the the premise
of having a working open relationship or
polyamorous relationship
and maybe 99 of people this is
impossible for maybe it's only 89 maybe
it's only 79. but like for a lot of
people this is totally impossible but
it's got to be
i have a positive intellectual
relationship with my wife or with my
husband and i still have more positivity
that i can share with someone else i
have a positive emotional connection
with my wife with my husband and then i
have more positivity that i can share
with someone else you know and you have
more sexual energy or whatever you know
what everyone's more sexual positivity
that's good to put actually really i
know it sounds corny but like sexual
positivity is a good way to to say and
then you can share that with someone
else it's not that you're in mourning
for the death of your relationship or in
mourning for how bad your sex life goes
with your husband right and you're
compensating with someone else so you
know
i think that like all the same issues
with uh with a closed marriage the
monogamous marriage they're just
repeated
but like on another level of like danger
when you got more people involved
yeah
yeah and more more propensity for
self-destruction and
and people getting hurt uh and so on but
yeah no it's it's great that you have
this self
knowledge you have the self-reflection
like you
you have stated to me and probably
you've talked about in youtube videos
but that like you have lived where
you've wanted to live like you don't
live with this kind of sense
um yeah sorry i'm not saying this to
flatter you i'm just
i'm saying this is like a you know a
reflection on this that like a lot of
people do live their lives feeling like
they never went out there and and tried
to get something
it's super shallow that the one thing
that i did in my life that i find
extraordinary is that i flew to china to
meet isil and like that's but it worked
it changed your life forever
okay i flew to china to meet isil which
you could say is a shallow sexual desire
that i had but it led to a lot of
non-shallow things though yes
right and it's it was kind of yeah a
shame that a lot of people that i tried
to share these things with just didn't
care like and they would have rather
me you know just stayed in this kind of
life of mediocrity like like it's not
easy for people who haven't done
something like that they find
they were really going out and pursuing
something pursuing some passion that
they found meaningful at a certain time
yeah you know
that kind of thing like
yeah if you have that on your own that's
what i find that's what i want to get
back to like that you're you're finding
that on your own like you don't need
somebody else to bring that into your
life and that's that's that's a
wonderful thing um but a lot of people
don't have that and they hope that a
relationship will be that thing right so
okay so this is i think i felt like on a
deep level there's something implicit
that you're saying here it's not
explicit at all but i'm not going to say
it explicitly and it comes back to the
question we're answering from from a
long time viewer okay
why the [ __ ] do you need to be married
at all
right
like just really straight up really
direct like what is the assumption that
you need to be in a relationship at all
because if this dude doesn't [ __ ] you if
this dude doesn't give you orgasms if
you're not in love with him on that
level right
why are we even having this [ __ ]
conversation you know what i mean like
for real
for real and you know like sometimes
there are answers that people don't want
to be honest about sometimes it's
economic it's hey this dude pays my rent
this dude financially makes my whole
life possible if you break up with them
you'll be different for the man too
right
sure yeah if you and you can talk to
guys who are like hey this woman does my
laundry like even if it's not direct you
know this woman makes my life possible
in all these ways they don't want the
inconvenience but like
you know
i i do think like on a really deep level
you gotta face up to
what the [ __ ] is the point of having a
relationship because you're talking
melissa is quite correctly talking about
daring and risk
but what are you daring
like the fundamental dare the
fundamental risk is
being alone
right now are you such a piece of [ __ ]
are you such a terrible person that you
would feel bad about yourself being
alone i'm not i'm completely happy being
alone and again if melissa gets hit by a
bolt of lightning or something like
you know like there's a sense in which
my life wouldn't change that much i'm
gonna live she knows that like if she
suddenly dies
you know some some an airplane crash or
something like she can imagine very well
what the rest of my life would be like
and i don't feel some need to be like
you know i i really don't care you know
i i like i think that fear of being
alone
it's actually a really profound form of
low self-esteem you know what do you
need other people for what do you want
other people what's the point of a
relationship now honestly honestly and
obviously
part of it is to have orgasms
part of it is to feel like you're in
love is to appreciate someone and be
appreciated by someone and it's someone
you're attracted to and it's someone you
you know you you have all these
intellectual and emotional components
of course but like if you're writing to
me saying that you have gnostic
certainty that's gnostic spell gno by
the way gnostic sir this is something
you know it's not something you doubt
something you're uncertain about you've
got 12 months of experience with this
guy it's different if it's the first two
weeks you're like well maybe okay then
you don't have gnosticity you have
gnostic certainty of what this
relationship is and what this
relationship is not so
what the [ __ ] is the point why would
there even be any any question and i i
do think for i'm not i'm not reading
your mind the person who sent in this
this particular question this may not be
the reason at all
but for a lot of people it's going to be
that fear of being alone it's not daring
it's not taking that risk and it's not
seeing your own life as something
meaningful that doesn't rely on any man
that doesn't rely on any woman and
something that's all on you and it's all
your own responsibility and doesn't have
anything to do with whether you have
kids or not it doesn't have anything to
do with whether you're rich or poor you
can work at mcdonald's you can live in a
one-bedroom apartment you know there was
a level at which you know if you're
actually starving to death that's
different but within the spectrum of
moderate poverty like that doesn't
change your ability to have a meaningful
life you can get books for free on the
internet you can get them at the library
you don't have to own a bookshelf i've
gone for many years without owning a
table or a bookshelf and being a real
intellectual you know like whatever it
is you're gonna do um
yeah i i do think like on a really deep
level there's this question of like how
can this even be uh
how can this even be a question and to
me you know that is to quote my famous
catchphrase that's deep and it's real
at the same damn time